hi I'm Alex I'm an ex IELTS examiner and
an expert teacher here at e2 language
how do you come up with ideas for your
IELTS writing task 2 and how do you
develop those ideas into paragraphs in
an opinion essay that's what we're going
to explore in this video I'm going to
talk about idea generation before the
test as well as on test day I'm going to
share with you a life saving tip which
will help you to score bound 7 and above
and I'm gonna write an introduction and
invite you to do the same so let's talk
idea generation before the test we're
lucky these days that we have access to
the Internet and you should be
leveraging that to your advantage in
your IELTS preparation
when you get an essay topic any essay
topic even a really simple one like
we're gonna use today you should take
the time to google it and try to read or
listen to something on that topic not
only will it give you a different
perspective maybe or somebody else's
opinion but it's a great way to find
topic-specific vocabulary and
collocations that you can integrate into
your own writing into your own language
here's the topic we're gonna work with
today all students should study art and
music in school to what extent do you
agree or disagree now that's a fairly
simple topic and maybe you already have
ideas on the subject but in your
preparation you should still google it
I'm not gonna teach you how to Google
but I do want to just give you a couple
of suggestions so one is to just type in
something like these benefits of art
music education see what pops up and
another idea is to put the name of a
resource or a newspaper that you like in
front of it here's a couple that I would
really recommend one is the conversation
if you type the conversation art
education into Google you're going to
get access to a range of articles the
great thing about the conversation is
that the articles are written by
academics and often by researchers so in
terms of IELTS this is
goldmine because a lot of these writers
are giving their personal opinion yeah
personal opinion but professional
opinion is probably a better way to put
it and they've often done research into
the area as well so you can look at
their opinion you can look at their
studies look at their research and
integrate that when it comes to writing
your own tasks too so check out the
conversation another really good
resource is the Guardian if you type in
The Guardian music education or art
education you're also gonna find some
really interesting articles and we have
a resource for you as well our e to
Isles topic toolkits these are resources
that we release regularly this is the
art topic toolkit and each one contains
essay topics on that theme as well as
speaking questions in this case around
the topic of art it has a sample essay
it has a list of 15 to 20 words related
to that topic as well as this which is
what I really want to talk about the
resources section so here we've already
done the googling for you and we've
found a bunch of things for you to read
or listen to or watch around the topic
and all you need to do is just click on
the link and you'll find an article like
this one for instance and once you're
there of course you can just read the
article quickly to get the overall point
or you might want to read a bit more
deeply looking for the writer's opinion
looking for the evidence that they've
used the explanations that they've given
you could transfer some of the words
into your vocabulary system your book
your flashcards look for academic
collocations you can also write a
summary of the article which is or a
summary of paragraphs as well a great
way to build your IELTS reading skills
at the same time as building your
writing skills from this particular
article I've just drawn out a couple of
sentences and I'll show you how valuable
they can be here's the first look
engaging with art is essential to the
human experience almost as soon as motor
skills are developed children
communicate through artistic expression
notice the collocations here
engaging with as soon as motor skills
artistic expressions great words and
collocations that you could use in your
own essay also look at the grammar here
we've got passive voice let's see
another one we find that a substantial
increase in arts educational experiences
has remarkable impacts on students
academic social and emotional outcomes
again nice collocations a substantial
increase has impacts on and some really
good ideas that you could put into an
essay the impacts on academic social and
emotional outcomes here's another part
from the same text have a look through
and think about what language or ideas
you could integrate into your essay so
ideas collocations vocabulary the point
is googling is a really good idea before
your test but when it comes to test day
how do we generate ideas so I imagine
you're in the test center you're sitting
at the computer or you have your pen and
paper at your desk and you've got that
essay topic in front of you hopefully
you just read an article and listen to a
podcast on the topic but either way you
need to generate ideas how do you do it
and more importantly how do you then
develop those ideas into strong body
paragraphs now before we start planning
definitely before we start writing the
first thing that you should do is really
read the question carefully even a very
simple question like this because
there's a lot in it let's have a look it
starts all students should study out of
music in school all students meaning
students of all ages all levels of
interest all levels of ability they
should all study art and music even this
modal verb is interesting all students
should study art and music does that
mean it should be compulsory or just
available and of course our nouns art
and music both of them
here you have to think about are they
both equally important do you think all
students should study art and not music
perhaps and in school so is that primary
school or is that high school for some
of these you need to make that decision
yourself the most important part is here
to what extent do you agree or disagree
so this is really the point of this
essay it's asking for you for your
opinion what do you think about it so of
course you could 100% agree
you might say yes all students should
study art of music in school in high
school in primary school it's a good
idea you could explain whether you think
it should be compulsory or just optional
and why and then your essay really needs
to get into the benefits of it you might
want to disagree perhaps you think art
music are a waste of time and that there
are more important subjects students
should be doing you may feel that art
and music could be pursuits that could
be followed outside of school hours for
instance can you be in the middle so
this is a question we get a lot can I be
in the middle or can I be both and not
really because you can't say yes all
students should study art and music in
school and no or students shouldn't
study art and music in school there are
contradictory opinions however you can
take what we would call it nuanced
position where for example you might say
that yes art should be taught throughout
high school but music should not so that
is sort of considered in the middle
nuanced but before we get into that I
want to look at these which is the IELTS
marking criteria and the reason that I
go on about opinion clear opinion is
because of the criteria this is what can
make or break you in IELTS so let's just
zoom in on this criterion over here task
response I should mention by the way if
you want to know more about how your
writing is marked particularly your task
2 essay we do have a video
click the link to find out exactly what
happens and to find out the difference
between an six writing and then seven
writing so over here in task response
BAM seven the second bullet point says
presents a clear position throughout the
response clear position I simply cannot
afford to confuse your examiner
if they get to the end of your essay and
feel a little bit unsure about what you
think then you're not going to score
band seven so it's really in your best
interests to make your opinion very very
explicit to the examiner if you don't
you risk being down here in the four
three two zone Ben 3 says does not
express a clear position so of course we
want to avoid that and be back up here
at Bound seven notice this really
important word though clear position
throughout the response so in this type
of essay in particular it is not enough
to have your opinion just in the
conclusion it has to be throughout if
you want to score them seven or above
you may have a very clear opinion
presented perhaps in body 2 and in the
conclusion but the examiner cannot tick
band 7 if your opinions not clear
throughout so just keep that in mind
basically for any IELTS writing task 2
but definitely for opinion essays with
that in mind let's think about how we're
going to develop our ideas and let's say
you 100% agree with this topic you're
gonna have the same essay structure that
we always use the intro body body and a
conclusion
we'll just talk about body 1 here this
is really where your idea development is
going to come into play the first thing
your paragraphs gonna have is a main
point and this is the topic sentence or
the first sentence of the paragraph so
in this case it might be something like
I think all students should study art
and music in school because it is
beneficial for their academic
development that's the main point you
want to make our music have a pause
impact on other academic skills then you
have an explanation you have to tell me
why or how how do art a music have an
impact on other academic subjects give
me an example or evidence so you could
make up a study here or use the study
that you know about or just draw on an
example from your knowledge or
experience as the instructions always
tell you in IELTS the other thing to
think about is the effect I've got two
questions here so what so what I mean by
this is we might be saying that our
music have a positive impact on other
academic subjects and I'll explain how
that happens I'll give an example or an
evidence or some evidence rather then
I've got to ask myself what's the impact
of that what's the bigger impact so yes
maybe our music will improve student's
academic performance but how will that
affect the rest of their life how will
that affect their future how will that
affect education or society more broadly
so that question there is just an extra
step in your idea development an extra
step a very valuable step the other
question I've got there is if not this
is looking at the question from another
perspective it could be what do other
people think and why they're wrong or it
could be what if students do not study
art music in school what might happen
there for body two you'd go through that
same process asking yourself what's my
main point why how what some evidence to
support it what's the bigger impact the
so what and what's the if not what if
this did not happen if you 100% disagree
you're gonna go through the same steps
main point explanation example effect so
keep these questions in your mind
they're really useful for any IELTS
essay topic ask yourself what why how
evidence so what if not
let's get on to the introduction here
now I'm going to presume that you know
how to write an IELTS task 2
introduction and if not you can watch
our video here on YouTube or learn more
in our IELTS course on e to language
comm but of course we're using the same
topic here in my introduction I
basically want to do three things first
of all I want to set the scene or give
you some context for my essay the second
thing that I want to do is zoom in from
there onto the question more
specifically so my first sentence might
be talking about education in general my
second sentence is going to be dealing
with the question at hand particularly
there art and music factor third thing I
want to do is give you my opinion
remember clear position throughout the
essay so here's an example the school
curriculum is a fluid entity often
changing to reflect societal and
cultural values this is my neutral
background statement I'm just setting
the scene setting the context now I'm
going to zoom in to the question the
inclusion of art and music in it in the
curriculum is inevitably a source of
much debate particularly in schools and
communities that consider them to be
soft or frivolous subjects third
sentence this is going to be my opinion
personally as a strong supporter of arts
education I feel that these subject
ought to be compulsory in primary school
and available as optional electives at
higher levels so when an examiner reads
that introduction there is no doubt in
their mind what I think about this
question now my job is to maintain that
consistency throughout the essay and
restate my opinion again in the
conclusion it's your turn I want you to
have a go now I'm gonna give you another
essay topic now still on the art theme
and I want you to write your
introduction into the comments section
below
what I'll be looking for is that
position it doesn't matter if you 100%
agree 100% disagree or take a nuanced
position but I want to I want to really
understand what your opinion is at the
end of those three sentences here is our
question creative artists should always
be given freedom to express their own
ideas in words pictures music or film in
whichever way they wish there should be
no government restrictions on what they
do to what extent do you agree or
disagree now before you panic remember
that we're not in the test now this is
the time to get on Google so have a look
at the conversation have a look at the
Guardian and feel free to share your own
resources with us as well
to recap take the time to put in the
work before test a youth Google on test
day itself
be sure to analyze the question
carefully before planning before writing
youth questions to fully develop your
ideas do you remember the questions what
why how evidence so what if not and of
course make sure that your opinion is
clear from top to bottom throughout your
essay if you need help we are there for
you on e to language come come and join
us you can sign up for free we have
daily live classes led by our expert
teachers you can get feedback on your
speaking and writing we have a full
IELTS course as well as one-on-one
tutorials and heaps heaps more thank you
for watching I look forward to reading
your introductions and I'll see you in
class soon on e t-- language comm I
[Music]